..
   Copyright (c) 2018-2024 William Emerison Six

   Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
   of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
   in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
   to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
   copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
   furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

   The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
   copies or substantial portions of the Software.

   THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
   IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
   AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
   LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
   OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
   SOFTWARE.

Shaders - Demo 20
=================

Purpose
^^^^^^^

Learn what "shaders" are, with a brief introduction to how
to use them in OpenGL 2.1.




How to Execute
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

On Linux or on MacOS, in a shell, type "python src/demo20/demo.py".
On Windows, in a command prompt, type "python src\\demo20\\demo.py".


Move the Paddles using the Keyboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

==============  ==============================================
Keyboard Input  Action
==============  ==============================================
*w*             Move Left Paddle Up
*s*             Move Left Paddle Down
*k*             Move Right Paddle Down
*i*             Move Right Paddle Up

*d*             Increase Left Paddle's Rotation
*a*             Decrease Left Paddle's Rotation
*l*             Increase Right Paddle's Rotation
*j*             Decrease Right Paddle's Rotation

*UP*            Move the camera up, moving the objects down
*DOWN*          Move the camera down, moving the objects up
*LEFT*          Move the camera left, moving the objects right
*RIGHT*         Move the camera right, moving the objects left

*q*             Rotate the square around it's center
*e*             Rotate the square around paddle 1's center
==============  ==============================================

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

In the previous demo, in the footnote, we found that "glVertex"
did a lot behind the scenes, sneakily grabbing data from the matrix
stacks and the current color (and lots of other things we haven't covered in
this book, like texturing and lighting).

What did the graphics driver do with the data?  This older style of graphics
programming is called "fixed-function" graphings programming, in that we can
tweak some values, but the graphics card and it's driver are going to do
whatever they were programmed to, and we can't control it.  Kind of like having
a graphicing calculator, but not having the ability to program it - OpenGL is
in control at this point, and we can just parameterize it.

Programmers wanted more control, first over how lighting works (which we don't
cover in this book).  Rather than having 3 or so lighting models to choose from,
the programmers wanted to be able to specify the math of how their custom
lighting worked.  So OpenGL 2.1 allowed the programmer to create "shaders",
which I believe were called such because they allow the programmer to change
the "shade" of a fragment [1]_.

In this demo, we keep most of the code from the previous demo the same,
we just add in programmable shaders.  So the calls to "glVertex"
are no longer a black box, in which something happens of the graphics card;
instead, before sending modelspace data to the graphics card, we program
a sequence of transformations that happen on the graphics card per vertex,
which a driver could implement in parallel.

We have some new imports, "glUseProgram", "GL_VERTEX_SHADER", "GL_FRAGMENT_SHADER"

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/demo20/demo.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: doc-region-begin c731ca97ef15896c876effbafec9d52a1354375f
   :end-before: doc-region-end c731ca97ef15896c876effbafec9d52a1354375f

We now ask the OpenGL driver to accept OpenGL 2.1 function calls.

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/demo20/demo.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: doc-region-begin b05eee9a50507de99ecad16ffa3af2da709b361a
   :end-before: doc-region-end b05eee9a50507de99ecad16ffa3af2da709b361a

Before the event loop starts, we send two mini programs to the GPU, the vertex
shader and the fragment shader.  The purpose of the vertex shader is to transform
the modelspace data to clip-space (x,y,z,w), where to get NDC you would divide
by the w; i.e. (x/w,y/w,z/w,1)

I like to think of a matrix multiplication to a vector as a "function-application",
in the same way we did in the lambda stack.

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/demo20/demo.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: doc-region-begin e6ff3c0ccea639bd5fb57a55ec548170b34c4bdf
   :end-before: doc-region-end e6ff3c0ccea639bd5fb57a55ec548170b34c4bdf

In the vertex shader, there are a lot of predefined variable names with values
provided to us. "gl_Modelview_matrix" is the matrix at the top of the modelview
matrix stack at the time "glVertex" is called, "glProjectionMatrix" is the top of
the projection matrix stack (although there is typically only one).  "glColor"
is the color that was defined for this vertex by calling "glColor3f".

In OpenGL 2.1, the output of the vertex shader that we use here is "glFrontColor",
which is a variable name that we must use to get the data to the fragment shader,
which we haven't covered.  (Actually there are a bunch of other predefined variable
outputs, including "glBackColor", for the case that we are looking at the back face
of the geometry.

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/demo20/triangle.vert
   :language: glsl

This is the fragment shader.  Unlike the vertex shader, which took an vertex in (x,y,z)
and outputed clipspace (NDC), the fragment shader for a given pixel is determining
the color [2]_.  Is "glColor" in the fragment shader the same "glColor" from the vertex
shader, or is it the value of the vertex shader's output "glFrontColor"?  Honestly,
the author doesn't know, but it's set to the output of the fragment shader,
and such questions are a moot point once we get to OpenGL 3.3 Core profile
in the next section.


.. literalinclude:: ../../src/demo20/triangle.frag
   :language: glsl

The explict mapping of variable names to values in OpenGL 3.3 Core Profile
will make the flow of data from the CPU program, to the GPU vertex shader,
to the fragment shader much more clear, albeit at the expense of verbosity.


.. [1] To note.  The word "shader" now just means a small function
       the executes on the GPU.  Taylor Swift would not write a song
       saying "A Shader's gonna shade shade shade shade", because shaders
       do all sorts of things now, like transformations of vertices
       from modelspace to clip-space, or adding new geometry in the
       middle of the graphic transformation pipeline.

.. [2] We are not yet concerned about how the rasterization process works,
       and the linear interpolation of color, normals, etc.  Online
       resources like "LearnOpenGL" and "PortableGL" cover this.
