Add Translate Method to Vertex - Demo 05
========================================


Purpose
^^^^^^^
Restructure the code towards future knowledge, i.e. the model view projection
pipeline.

Transforming vertices, such as translating, is the core concept
of computer graphics.



Move the Paddles using the Keyboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

==============  ======================
Keyboard Input  Action
==============  ======================
*w*             Move Left Paddle Up
*s*             Move Left Paddle Down
*k*             Move Right Paddle Down
*i*             Move Right Paddle Up
==============  ======================


Translation
^^^^^^^^^^^

Dealing with the two Paddles the way we did before is not
ideal.  Both Paddles have the same size, but they are placed
in different spots of the screen.  We should be able to
create geometry for the Paddle that is independent of it's
placement.

Rather than using absolute values for each vertex, in the
Paddle data structure, each vertex will be an offset from
the center of the Paddle, which is point x=0, y=0.
Before rendering, each Paddle's
vertices will need to be translated to its actual position.


All methods on verticies will be returning new verticies,
rather than mutating the instance variables.  The author
does this on purpose to enable method-chaining the Python
methods, which will be useful later on.


.. math::

    \begin{equation*}
     \vec{T}(\vec{v};\vec{t}) =
    \begin{bmatrix}
    v_{x} \\
    v_{y}
    \end{bmatrix} +
    \begin{bmatrix}
    t_{x} \\
    t_{y}
    \end{bmatrix}
    \end{equation*}

Code
^^^^

Data Structures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo05/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 88
   :lines: 88-94

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo05/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 97
   :lines: 97-103

Instantiation of the Paddles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo05/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 106
   :lines: 106-130

Handling User Input
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo05/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 133
   :lines: 133-143

* New!  We put the transformation on the center of the paddle, instead
  of directly on each vertex

The Event Loop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


TODO -- put in Cayley graph here and explain

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo05/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 150
   :lines: 150-166

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo05/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 168
   :lines: 168-182
