Adding Depth - Z axis Demo 14
=============================

Purpose
^^^^^^^
Do the same stuff as the previous demo, but use 3D coordinates,
where the negative z axis goes into the screen (because
of the right hand rule).  Positive z comes out of the monitor
towards your face.


Things that this demo purposefully does poorly.  Show the demo and
it's failures.

1) The blue square is always drawn, even
when it's behind the purple paddle.  The solution will be
zbuffering https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z-buffering#Mathematics,
and it is implemented in the next demo.




Move the Paddles using the Keyboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

==============  ==============================================
Keyboard Input  Action
==============  ==============================================
*w*             Move Left Paddle Up
*s*             Move Left Paddle Down
*k*             Move Right Paddle Down
*i*             Move Right Paddle Up

*d*             Increase Left Paddle's Rotation
*a*             Decrease Left Paddle's Rotation
*l*             Increase Right Paddle's Rotation
*j*             Decrease Right Paddle's Rotation

*UP*            Move the camera up, moving the objects down
*DOWN*          Move the camera down, moving the objects up
*LEFT*          Move the camera left, moving the objects right
*RIGHT*         Move the camera right, moving the objects left

*q*             Rotate the square around it's center
*e*             Rotate the square around paddle 1's center
==============  ==============================================

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

This demo introduces the z axis, which is a third spacial dimension
for our geometry.  This demo does not working correctly,
which demo 15 solves.

#. The blue square is always drawn, even
when it's behind the purple paddle.  The solution will be
zbuffering https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z-buffering#Mathematics,
and it is implemented in the next demo.

..
   TODO -- see if this text can fit.
   Other things added
   Added rotations around the x axis, y axis, and z axis.
   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotation_matrix

   Added translate in 3D.  Added scale in 3D.  These are just like
   the 2D versions, just with the same process applied to the z axis.

   They direction of the rotation is defined by the right hand rule.

   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-hand_rule


NEW - Rotations around an angle in 3D space follow the right hand rule

With open palm, fingers on the x axis, rotating the fingers to y axis,
means that the positive z axis is in the direction of the thumb.  Positive Theta
moves in the direction that your fingers did.

starting on the y axis, rotating to z axis, thumb is on the positive x axis.

starting on the z axis, rotating to x axis, thumb is on the positive y axis.


NEW - ortho takes an arbitrary rectangular prism, moves the center of it to NDC,
and scales the dimensions down to NDC, so that any objects within the rectangular
prism are visible within NDC.  Since this is a transformation that happens
from camera space to NDC, we can read them from top down.


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo14/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 90
   :lines: 90-121


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo14/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 134
   :lines: 134-158

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo14/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 172
   :lines: 172-177


Event Loop
^^^^^^^^^^


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo14/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 230
   :lines: 230

::

    ...


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo14/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 248
   :lines: 248-258

the square should not be visible when hidden behind the paddle1,
as we did a translate by -10.
this is because without depth buffering, the object drawn last
clobbers the color of any previously drawn object at the pixel.
Try moving the square drawing code to the beginning, and you will
see that the square can be hidden behind the paddle.


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo14/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 260
   :lines: 260-275


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo14/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 277
   :lines: 277-288


Added translate in 3D.  Added scale in 3D.  These are just like
the 2D versions, just with the same process applied to the z axis.

They direction of the rotation is defined by the right hand rule.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-hand_rule
