Matrix Stacks - Demo 19
=======================

Purpose
^^^^^^^

Replace lambda stacks with matrix stacks.  This is how preshader
opengl worked (well, they provided matrix operations, but I replaced
them with my own to make the matrix operations transparent).

The concepts behind the function stack, in which the first function
added to the stack is the last function applied, hold true for
matricies as well.  But matricies are a much more efficient
representation computationally than the function stack,
and instead of adding fns and later having to remove them,
we can save onto the current frame of reference with a "glPushStack",
and restore the saved state by "glPopStack"

Use glPushMatrix and glPopMatrix to save/restore a local coordinate
system, that way a tree of objects can be drawn without one child
destroying the relative coordinate system of the parent node.

In mvpVisualization/demoViewWorldTopLevel.py, the grayed out
coordinate system is one thas has been pushed onto the stack,
and it regains it's color when it is reactivated by "glPopMatrix"






Move the Paddles using the Keyboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

==============  ==============================================
Keyboard Input  Action
==============  ==============================================
*w*             Move Left Paddle Up
*s*             Move Left Paddle Down
*k*             Move Right Paddle Down
*i*             Move Right Paddle Up

*d*             Increase Left Paddle's Rotation
*a*             Decrease Left Paddle's Rotation
*l*             Increase Right Paddle's Rotation
*j*             Decrease Right Paddle's Rotation

*UP*            Move the camera up, moving the objects down
*DOWN*          Move the camera down, moving the objects up
*LEFT*          Move the camera left, moving the objects right
*RIGHT*         Move the camera right, moving the objects left

*q*             Rotate the square around it's center
*e*             Rotate the square around paddle 1's center
==============  ==============================================

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^



# NEW - TODO - talk about opengl matricies and z pos/neg

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 57
   :lines: 57-59


set the model, view, and projection matrix to the identity
matrix.  This just means that the functions (currently)
will not transform data.
In univariate terms, f(x) = x

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 204
   :lines: 204-206


change the perspective matrix to convert the frustum
to NDC.
set the projection matrix to be perspective.  Since
the viewport is always square, set the aspect ratio to be 1.0.

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 208
   :lines: 208-213

the ms namespace is pyMatrixStack, located in this folder.
we need to send the matrix to OpenGL, by setting the matrix
mode to be projection, and then call "loadmatrix", which
we get from pyMatrixStack.  (Don't sweat the details
of ascontigousarray, just copy and paste)

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 215
   :lines: 215

ascontiguousarray puts the array in column major order

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 216
   :lines: 216-218

The camera's position is described as follows

::

     ms.translate(ms.MatrixStack.view,
                  camera.x,
                  camera.y,
                  camera.z)
     ms.rotate_y(ms.MatrixStack.view,camera.rot_y)
     ms.rotate_x(ms.MatrixStack.view,camera.rot_x)

Therefore, to take the object's world space coordinates
and transform them into camera space, we need to
do the inverse operations to the view stack.


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 220
   :lines: 220-222



Each call above actually modifies the matrix, as matricies
can be premultiplied together for efficiency.
 |a b|     |e f|         |ae+bg  af+bh|
 |c d|  *  |g h|  =      |ce+dg  cf+dh|
this means that rotate_x, rotate_y, translate, etc
are destructive operations.  Instead of creating a stack
of matricies, these operations aggregate the transformations,
but add no new matricies to the stack

but many times we need to hold onto a transformation stack (matrix),
so that we can do something else now, and return to this context later,
so we have a stack composed of matricies.

This is what GLPushMatrix, and GLPopMatrix do.

"with" is a Python keyword which allows for bounded contexts, where
the library code can specify what happens before execution of the block,
and after.  This is similar to RAII within C++, in which a constructor
sets a context, and the destructor destroys it.

The author uses a debugger to do dynamic analysis of code, as compared
to static, as the language knows its own control flow, and where modules
are located in the filesystem.  I recommend using a debugger (PDB on linux/macos,
the built in functionality in VS Community), to set a breakpoint here, step in,
step out, etc

"PushMatrix" describes what the function does, but its purpose is to
save onto the current coordinate system for later drawing modelspace
data.

the model stack is currently the identity matrix, meaning
it does nothing.  The view and the projection matrix
are set to transform from world space into camera space,
and then take the frustum and convert it to NDC.

save onto the current model stack


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 224
   :lines: 224


draw paddle 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Unlike in previous demos, because the transformations
are on a stack, the fns on the model stack can
be read forwards, where each operation translates/rotates/scales
the current space

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 226
   :lines: 226-235



load our model and view matrix (premultiplied) to
openGL's matrix
set the current matrix (as we don't want to load into OpenGL's
perspective matrix


.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 236
   :lines: 236-240


NEW!!! glVertex data is specified in modelspace coordinates,
but since we loaded the projection matrix and the modelview
matrix into OpenGL, glVertex3f will apply those transformations.

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 241
   :lines: 241-244

draw the square relative to paddle 1
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

since the modelstack is already in paddle1's space
just add the transformations relative to it
before paddle 2 is drawn, we need to remove
the square's 3 model_space transformations

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 253
   :lines: 253-260

glPopMatrix was implictly called because of the "with" keyword
therefore, our model matrix is set to identity.  view is still
configure correctly, and is the projection matrix

no Need to push matrix here, as this is the last object that
we are drawing, and upon the next iteration of the event loop,
all 3 matricies will be reset to the identity

draw paddle 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. literalinclude:: ../src/demo19/demo.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 262
   :lines: 262-277
